Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course so in this lecture I'm going to try to acquaint you just a little bit with
how do development firms in general work.
So there's actually a lot of different types of development companies but they only really fall into
two buckets.
Not all development firms are the same and not all of them try to take on the same types of projects.
So first off it's a decision between whether or not a firm is full stack or specialized.
Now what do I mean by that.
Previously we talked about what exactly is a dev stack.
And a lot of firms will build everything on that development stack so they'll cover every single one
of those technologies.
If you need to build something it requires setting up a server.
They've got it covered.
A build something that requires writing server side programming like DHP covered sequel databases.
They'll do that for you if you want to even install the graphic design that you've had made before like
create your own HD Jamail javascript layer.
They'll do that.
That's what a full stack development firm is.
Typically those people are building something from scratch or they're building something kind of in
totality they don't usually pick up other projects that are halfway done or add on sections to someone
else's project.
Now the alternative to that is a specialized firm specialized firm might only pick one technology layer
and specialize in that.
A lot of firms you can go out and talk to you and they only will do say front end development meaning
they'll only do the javascript with or only do the HDMI in the CSSA although even only do the slicing
of the images from your graphic design.
A lot of firms out there will specialize in setting up servers.
A lot of firms will specialize in a very specific technology that might be popular or it might be something
that other people just do not specialize in.
Give you an example of that.
No.
S is a popular server side javascript which is kind of obscure and a not a lot of Web sites use it currently
but its in demand so a lot of companies will specialize in say that.
Now the other big dividing line between development firms is whether or not they build something thats
custom or they use platforms.
So now what I mean by that.
While a lot of people want to build something that doesnt necessarily need to be built from scratch.
They want to build something that has components that have been built elsewhere.
And so a lot of times people will say I want to build this website but I want it to be built on top
of something now that something might be say like Wordpress or Drupal if you're familiar with that.
A lot of firms work specifically with those platforms and they specialize in customizing those platforms
to fit people's needs.
The opposite of that is a firm that builds custom meaning if you have an idea they're going to build
the entirety of it they're going to build all of the architecture they're going to set everything up
themselves.
They're not going to reuse any code from anywhere.
They're not going to take any shortcuts.
Now you can actually build a firm that does both of them.
But what you'll notice is typically they're either one or the other firms that like to build custom
applications will insist on building custom applications and firms that like to use platforms almost
always will suggest using a platform as a way to kind of skip ahead in the development process and save
money.
I couldn't tell you how many fit into each category but if you do go and just take a browse around you'll
see that there's quite a lot of them.
So that should explain to you exactly what are the categories of development firms later we're going
to talk about how do you pick your strategy and how do you pick which one you want to be.
What's going to give you the most opportunity.
What's going to get your business the soonest and what fits best with your profile and the people that
you're working with.
Okay guys we're almost through the essentials section onto the next section.
No actually started getting into the formulation and the conception behind your firm.
These are all just the lectures of the things that you should know before you get into it.
This is kind of a crash course how to development firms work.
Any questions comments.
Just post them on the group discussion otherwise I'll see in the next lecture.